add v6.1.4 release notes (#12282)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-6.1.4.md

---
title: TiDB 6.1.4 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.1.4 Release Notes

Release date: February 8, 2023

TiDB version: 6.1.4

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.1.4#version-list)

## Compatibility changes

- Tools

    - TiCDC

        - 

## Improvements

- PD

    - 

- TiFlash

    - Reduce the IOPS and write amplification of TiFlash under high update throughput workloads. [#6460](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6460) @[flowbehappy](https://github.com/flowbehappy)

- Tools

    - TiCDC

>         - 

Reviewer: -TiCDC: Add batch dmls mode [#7653](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7653)

>         - 

Author: ```suggestion
        - Add batch dmls mode [#7653](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7653) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

    
    - Lightning

        - Change severity of clusterResourceCheckItem,emptyRegionCheckItem from Critical to Warn [#37654](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37654) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) 

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    tidb

    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that when you create a table, the default value and the type of a column are not consistent and are not automatically corrected [#34881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34881) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

    transaction

>     - session: fix data race in the LazyTxn.LockKeys [#40355](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40355) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
>     - Fix the case that INSERT/REPLACE might panic in a long session connection [#40351](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40351) @[fanrenhoo](https://github.com/fanrenhoo)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix data race in the LazyTxn.LockKeys [#40355](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40355) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Fix the case that INSERT/REPLACE might panic in a long session connection [#40351](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40351) @[fanrenhoo](https://github.com/fanrenhoo)
    - Fix the issue that hcursor read being canceled by GC [#39447](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39447)@[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue that the pessimistic autocommit configuration does not work for point get plans [#39928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39928)@[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: - Fix cursor read being canceled by GC #39447 @zyguan
- Fix pessimistic autocommit configuration not working for point get plans #39928 @zyguan

    - 

    planner

    (dup: release-6.3.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB> Fix the issue that querying `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` returns an incorrect result @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala))- Fix the issue that the `IN` and `NOT IN` subqueries in some patterns report the `Can't find column` error [#37032](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37032) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

- PD

    - Fix an issue that PD may repeatedly add Learner to a Region. [#5786](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5786) @[HunDunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM)   

+ TiKV

    (dup: release-6.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that TiDB fails to start on Gitpod when there are multiple `cgroup` and `mountinfo` records [#13660](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13660) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)
    (dup: release-6.5.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that tikv-ctl is terminated unexpectedly when executing the `reset-to-version` command [#13829](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13829) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

>     - Fixed a problem that when a transaction in TiDB fails to execute a pessimistic DML and then executes another DML, if there are random network failures between TiDB and TiKV, it has risk to cause data inconsistency. [#40114](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40114) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Duplicates with L74

    - Fixed a problem that when a transaction in TiDB fails to execute a pessimistic DML and then executes another DML, if there are random network failures between TiDB and TiKV, it has risk to cause data inconsistency. [#14038](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14038) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
    (dup: release-6.5.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that `_` in the `LIKE` operator cannot match non-ASCII characters when new collation is not enabled [#13769](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13769) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)

+ TiFlash

    - Avoid tiflash global locks with small probability of long term blocking. [#6418](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6418) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
    - Fix an issue that causes OOM with high throughput write [#6407](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6407) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Fixed a bug that may cause BR reject to restore unexpectedly. [#36053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36053) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)        - 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that restore exits due to get region size failed. [#36053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36053) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix a issue that cause br debug backupmeta file panic.[#40878](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40878) @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28) 
```

---
title: TiDB 6.1.4 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.1.4 Release Notes

Release date: February 8, 2023

TiDB version: 6.1.4

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.1.4#version-list)

## Compatibility changes

- Tools

    - TiCDC

        - 

## Improvements

- PD

    - 

- TiFlash

>     - Reduce the IOPS and write amplification of TiFlash under high update throughput workloads. [#6460](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6460) 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Reduce the IOPS and write amplification of TiFlash under high update throughput workloads. [#6460](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6460) @[flowbehappy](https://github.com/flowbehappy)
```

>     - Reduce the IOPS and write amplification of TiFlash under high update throughput workloads. [#6460](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6460) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Reduce the IOPS and write amplification of TiFlash under high update throughput workloads. [#6460](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6460) 
```

- Tools

    - TiCDC

        - 
    
    - Lightning

        - Change severity of clusterResourceCheckItem,emptyRegionCheckItem from Critical to Warn [#37654](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37654) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) 

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    tidb

    (dup: release-6.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that when you create a table, the default value and the type of a column are not consistent and are not automatically corrected [#34881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34881) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

    transaction

    - session: fix data race in the LazyTxn.LockKeys [#40355](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40355) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Fix the case that INSERT/REPLACE might panic in a long session connection [#40351](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40351) @[fanrenhoo](https://github.com/fanrenhoo)

    sql-infra
    

>     - Block modify column of partitioned table, even if it was not changing data when put into the DDL queue. [#40620](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40620) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Block modify column of partitioned table, even if it was not changing data when put into the DDL queue. [#40620](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40620) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

    - 

    planner

    (dup: release-6.3.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB> Fix the issue that querying `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` returns an incorrect result @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala))- Fix the issue that the `IN` and `NOT IN` subqueries in some patterns report the `Can't find column` error [#37032](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37032) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

- PD

>     - Fix an issue that PD may repeatedly add Learner to a Region. [#5786](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5786) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)   

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix an issue that PD may repeatedly add Learner to a Region. [#5786](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5786) @[HunDunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM)   
```

+ TiKV

    (dup: release-6.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that TiDB fails to start on Gitpod when there are multiple `cgroup` and `mountinfo` records [#13660](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13660) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)
    (dup: release-6.5.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that tikv-ctl is terminated unexpectedly when executing the `reset-to-version` command [#13829](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13829) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

>     - Fixed a problem that when a transaction in TiDB fails to execute a pessimistic DML and then executes another DML, if there are random network failures between TiDB and TiKV, it has risk to cause data inconsistency. [#40114](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40114) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fixed a problem that when a transaction in TiDB fails to execute a pessimistic DML and then executes another DML, if there are random network failures between TiDB and TiKV, it has risk to cause data inconsistency. [#40114](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40114) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
    - ```

    (dup: release-6.3.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that TiKV mistakenly reports a `PessimisticLockNotFound` error [#13425](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13425) @[sticnarf](https://github.com/sticnarf) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)
    - Fixed a problem that when a transaction in TiDB fails to execute a pessimistic DML and then executes another DML, if there are random network failures between TiDB and TiKV, it has risk to cause data inconsistency. [#14038](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14038) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
    (dup: release-6.5.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that `_` in the `LIKE` operator cannot match non-ASCII characters when new collation is not enabled [#13769](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13769) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)

+ TiFlash

    - Avoid tiflash global locks with small probability of long term blocking. [#6418](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6418) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

>     - Fix an issue that causes OOM with high throughput write [#6407](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6407) @[hehechen](https://github.com/hehechen)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix an issue that causes OOM with high throughput write [#6407](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6407) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

>     - Reduce memory usage under heavy write pressure. [#6431](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6431) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Reduce memory usage under heavy write pressure. [#6431](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6431) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
```

>     - Reduce memory usage under heavy write pressure. [#6431](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6431) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fixed a bug that may cause BR reject to restore unexpectedly. [#36053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36053) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)        - 

    + TiCDC

        - Fix an issue that checkpoint can not advance when replicating many tables. [#8004](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8004) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

>         - Fix the issue of transaction-atomicity and protocol can't be updated via config file. [#7935](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7935) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue of transaction-atomicity and protocol can't be updated via config file. [#7935](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7935) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)        ```

>         (dup: release-6.5.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue that TiCDC mistakenly reports an error when there is a later version of TiFlash [#7744](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7744) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
>         - Fix an OOM issue when TiCDC replicates big transactions [#7913](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7913) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Author: ```suggestion
        (dup: release-6.5.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue that TiCDC mistakenly reports an error when there is a later version of TiFlash [#7744](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7744) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus) 
        - Fix an OOM issue when TiCDC replicates big transactions [#7913](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7913) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus) 
```

        - Fix the bug that context deadline was exceeded when replicating data without split big txn [#7982](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7982) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

>         (dup: release-6.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue that `sasl-password` in the `changefeed query` result is not masked [#7182](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7182) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
>         (dup: release-6.5.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue that data is lost when a user quickly deletes a replication task and then creates another one with the same task name [#7657](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7657) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Author: ```suggestion
        (dup: release-6.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue that `sasl-password` in the `changefeed query` result is not masked [#7182](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7182) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
        (dup: release-6.5.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue that data is lost when a user quickly deletes a replication task and then creates another one with the same task name [#7657](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7657) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
```

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

>         (dup: release-6.5.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Fix the issue that DM precheck is not passed when the upstream database uses regular expressions to grant privileges [#7645](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7645) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)
>         - Fix a bug that when both "update" and "non-update" type expression filters are used in one table, all UPDATE row changes are skipped [#7831](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7831) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Author: ```suggestion
        (dup: release-6.5.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Fix the issue that DM precheck is not passed when the upstream database uses regular expressions to grant privileges [#7645](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7645) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) 
        - Fix a bug that when both "update" and "non-update" type expression filters are used in one table, all UPDATE row changes are skipped [#7831](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7831) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.1.4 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.1.4 Release Notes

Release date: February 8, 2023

TiDB version: 6.1.4

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.1.4#version-list)

## Improvements

- TiFlash

    - Reduce the IOPS and write amplification of TiFlash under high update throughput workloads [#6460](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6460) @[flowbehappy](https://github.com/flowbehappy)

- Tools

    - TiCDC

        - Add the dml batch operation mode to improve the throughput in scenarios of running batches [#7653](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7653) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    - Lightning

>         - Change severity of precheck items `clusterResourceCheckItem` and `emptyRegionCheckItem` from `Critical` to `Warning` [#37654](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37654) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Change severity of precheck item clusterResourceCheckItem and emptyRegionCheckItem from Critical to Warn[#37654](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37654) @[niubell]
        - Fix memory leak on Large Source Files[#39331](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39331) @[dsdashun]
        - Fix Table Empty Check cannot find imported dirty data on previous failed imports[#39477](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39477) @[dsdashun]
```

>         - Change severity of precheck items `clusterResourceCheckItem` and `emptyRegionCheckItem` from `Critical` to `Warning` [#37654](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37654) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Change severity of precheck items `clusterResourceCheckItem` and `emptyRegionCheckItem` from `Critical` to `Warn` [#37654](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37654) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.1.4 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 6.1.4.
---

# TiDB 6.1.4 Release Notes

Release date: February 8, 2023

TiDB version: 6.1.4

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.1.4#version-list)

## Compatibility changes

- TiDB

    - Block modify column of partitioned table, even if it was not changing data when put into the DDL queue. [#40620](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40620) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

## Improvements

- TiFlash

    - Reduce the IOPS and write amplification of TiFlash under high update throughput workloads [#6460](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6460) @[flowbehappy](https://github.com/flowbehappy)

- Tools

    - TiCDC

>         - Add the DML batch operation mode to improve the throughput in scenarios of running batches [#7653](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7653) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Add the DML batch operation mode to improve the throughput in scenarios of running batches [#7653](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7653) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Support storing redo logs to GCS- or Azure-compatible object storage [#7987](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7987) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
```

        - Support storing redo logs to GCS- or Azure-compatible object storage [#7987](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7987) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

    - TiDB Lightning

        - Change severity of the precheck items `clusterResourceCheckItem` and `emptyRegionCheckItem` from `Critical` to `Warning` [#37654](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37654) @[niubell](https://github.com/niubell)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - Fix the issue that when you create a table, the default value and the type of a column are not consistent and are not automatically corrected [#34881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34881) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the data race issue in the `LazyTxn.LockKeys` function [#40355](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40355) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Fix the issue that the `INSERT` or `REPLACE` statements might panic in long session connections [#40351](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40351) @[fanrenhoo](https://github.com/fanrenhoo)

>     - Fix the issue that reading data using the "cursor read" method might return error because of GC [#39447](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39447)@[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that reading data using the "cursor read" method might return an error because of GC [#39447](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39447)@[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
```

>     - Fix the issue that reading data using the "cursor read" method might return an error because of GC [#39447](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39447)@[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
>     - Fix the issue that the [`pessimistic-auto-commit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#pessimistic-auto-commit) configuration item does not take effect for point-get queries [#39928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39928)@[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
>     - Fix the issue that querying the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table returns an incorrect result @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala))

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that reading data using the "cursor read" method might return an error because of GC [#39447](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39447) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue that the [`pessimistic-auto-commit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#pessimistic-auto-commit) configuration item does not take effect for point-get queries [#39928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39928) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue that querying the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table returns an incorrect result @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
```

>     - Fix the issue that querying the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table returns an incorrect result @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that querying the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table returns an incorrect result [#37436](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37436) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
```

>     - Fix the issue that when you create a table, the default value and the type of a column are not consistent and are not automatically corrected [#34881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34881) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
>     - Fix data race in the LazyTxn.LockKeys [#40355](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40355) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
>     - Fix the case that INSERT/REPLACE might panic in a long session connection [#40351](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40351) @[fanrenhoo](https://github.com/fanrenhoo)
>     - Fix the issue that cursor read being canceled by GC [#39447](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39447)@[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
>     - Fix the issue that the pessimistic autocommit configuration does not work for point get plans [#39928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39928)@[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
>     - Fix the issue that querying `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` returns an incorrect result @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala))
>     - Fix the issue that the `IN` and `NOT IN` subqueries in some patterns report the `Can't find column` error [#37032](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37032) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when you create a table, the default value and the type of a column are not consistent and are not automatically corrected [#34881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34881) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the data race issue in the `LazyTxn.LockKeys` function [#40355](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40355) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Fix the issue that the `INSERT` or `REPLACE` statements might panic in long session connections [#40351](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40351) @[fanrenhoo](https://github.com/fanrenhoo)
    - Fix the issue that reading data using the "cursor read" method might return error because of GC [#39447](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39447)@[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue that the [`pessimistic-auto-commit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#pessimistic-auto-commit) configuration item does not take effect for point-get queries [#39928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39928)@[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue that querying the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table returns an incorrect result @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala))
    - Fix the issue that the `IN` and `NOT IN` subqueries in some patterns report the `Can't find column` error [#37032](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37032) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

- PD

>     - Fix the issue that PD might repeatedly add Learner to a Region. [#5786](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5786) @[HunDunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that PD might unexpectedly add multiple Learners to a Region [#5786](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5786) @[HunDunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM)
```

+ TiKV

>     - Fix the issue that TiDB fails to start on Gitpod when there are multiple `cgroup` and `mountinfo` records [#13660](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13660) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie) @[ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB fails to start on Gitpod when there are multiple `cgroup` and `mountinfo` records [#13660](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13660) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
```

>     - Fix the issue that tikv-ctl is terminated unexpectedly when executing the `reset-to-version` command [#13829](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13829) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie) @[ti-chi-bot](https://github.com/ti-chi-bot)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that tikv-ctl is terminated unexpectedly when executing the `reset-to-version` command [#13829](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13829) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
```

>     - Fix the panic when the size of one single write exceeds 2 GiB. [#13848](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13848) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
>     - Fix the issue that TiKV mistakenly reports a `PessimisticLockNotFound` error [#13425](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13425) @[sticnarf](https://github.com/sticnarf)
>     - Fix the issue that when a transaction in TiDB fails to execute a pessimistic DML and then executes another DML, if there are random network failures between TiDB and TiKV, it has risk to cause data inconsistency [#14038](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14038) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV mistakenly reports a `PessimisticLockNotFound` error [#13425](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13425) @[sticnarf](https://github.com/sticnarf)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV might panic when the size of one single write exceeds 2 GiB [#13848](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13848) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
    - Fix the data inconsistency issue caused by network failure between TiDB and TiKV during the execution of a DML after a failed pessimistic DML [#14038](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14038) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
```

    - Fix the issue that `_` in the `LIKE` operator cannot match non-ASCII characters when new collation is not enabled [#13769](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13769) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)

+ TiFlash

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash global locks are blocked for long time occasionally [#6418](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6418) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash global locks are blocked for a long time occasionally [#6418](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6418) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
```

    - Fix the issue that high throughput writes cause OOM [#6407](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6407) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the issue that restore is interrupted due to failure in getting the Region size [#36053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36053) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

>         - Fix the issue that causes panic when BR debugs the backupmeta file [#40878](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40878) @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that causes panic when BR debugs the `backupmeta` file [#40878](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40878) @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)
```

    + TiCDC

        - Fix the issue that the checkpoint cannot advance when TiCDC replicates an excessively large number of tables [#8004](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8004) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue that `transaction_atomicity` and `protocol` cannot be updated via the configuration file [#7935](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7935) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

>         - Fix the issue that TiCDC mistakenly reports an error when there is a later version of TiFlash [#7744](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7744) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC mistakenly reports an error when the TiFlash version is later than TiCDC [#7744](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7744) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
```

>         - Fix the issue that checkpoint can not advance when replicating many tables [#8004](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8004) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
>         - Fix the issue of transaction-atomicity and protocol can't be updated via config file [#7935](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7935) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
>         - Fix the issue that TiCDC mistakenly reports an error when there is a later version of TiFlash [#7744](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7744) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
>         - Fix an OOM issue when TiCDC replicates big transactions [#7913](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7913) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the checkpoint cannot advance when TiCDC replicates an excessively large number of tables [#8004](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8004) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue that `transaction_atomicity` and `protocol` cannot be updated via the configuration file [#7935](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7935) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC mistakenly reports an error when there is a later version of TiFlash [#7744](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7744) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
        - Fix the issue that OOM occurs when TiCDC replicates large transactions [#7913](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7913) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
```

>         - Fix a bug that context deadline is exceeded when TiCDC replicates data without splitting large transactions [#7982](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7982) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that the context deadline is exceeded when TiCDC replicates data without splitting large transactions [#7982](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7982) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

        - Fix the issue that `sasl-password` in the `changefeed query` result is not masked [#7182](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7182) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
        - Fix the issue that data is lost when a user quickly deletes a replication task and then creates another one with the same task name [#7657](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7657) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

>         - Fix a bug that DM might raise an error during precheck when the downstream database name in `SHOW GRANTS` contains a wildcard ("*") [#7645](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7645) @[lance6716]

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that DM might raise an error during precheck when the downstream database name in `SHOW GRANTS` contains a wildcard ("*") [#7645](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7645) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

>         - Fix the issue that DM prints too many logs caused by "COMMIT" in binlog query events [#7525](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7525) @[liumengya94]

Reviewer 9: May dup with [v6.1.3](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/release-6.1.3#:~:text=%E4%BF%AE%E5%A4%8D%E5%9C%A8%E6%9F%90%E4%BA%9B%E5%9C%BA%E6%99%AF%E4%B8%8B%20relay%20log%20%E6%96%87%E4%BB%B6%E4%BC%9A%E4%BB%8E%E4%B8%8A%E6%B8%B8%E9%87%8D%E6%96%B0%E6%8B%89%E5%8F%96%E7%9A%84%E9%97%AE%E9%A2%98%20%237525%20%40liumengya94)

>         - Fix the issue that DM fails to run when only "ssl-ca" is configured [#7941](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7941) @[liumengya94]

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the DM task fails to start when only `ssl-ca` is configured for SSL [#7941](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7941) @[liumengya94]
```

>         - Fix the issue that DM prints too many logs caused by "COMMIT" in binlog query events [#7525](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7525) @[liumengya94]

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that DM prints too many logs caused by "COMMIT" in binlog query events [#7525](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7525) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)
```

>         - Fix the issue that the DM task fails to start when only `ssl-ca` is configured for SSL [#7941](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7941) @[liumengya94]

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the DM task fails to start when only `ssl-ca` is configured for SSL [#7941](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7941) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)
```

>         - Fix a bug that when both "update" and "non-update" type expression filters are used in one table, all UPDATE row changes are skipped [#7831](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7831) @[lance6716]

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that when the expression filters of both "update" and "non-update" types are specified in one table, all `UPDATE` row changes are skipped [#7831](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7831) @[lance6716]
```

>         - Fix a bug that when the expression filters of both "update" and "non-update" types are specified in one table, all `UPDATE` row changes are skipped [#7831](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7831) @[lance6716]

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that when the expression filters of both "update" and "non-update" types are specified in one table, all `UPDATE` statements are skipped [#7831](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7831) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

>         - Fix a bug when only one of `update-old-value-expr` or `update-new-value-expr` is set for a table, it does not take effect or panic [#7774](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7774) @[lance6716]

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that when only one of `update-old-value-expr` or `update-new-value-expr` is set for a table, the filter does not take effect or DM panics [#7774](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7774) @[lance6716]
```

    + TiDB Lightning

>         - Fix the memory leak issue on Large Source Files [#39331](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39331) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

Reviewer 9: dup with [v6.5.0](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/release-6.5.0#:~:text=Fix%20the%20memory%20leakage%20issue%20when%20TiDB%20Lightning%20imports%20a%20huge%20source%20data%20file)
```suggestion
        - Fix the memory leakage issue when TiDB Lightning imports a huge source data file [#39331](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39331) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)
```

>         - Fix a bug that when only one of `update-old-value-expr` or `update-new-value-expr` is set for a table, the filter does not take effect or DM panics [#7774](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7774) @[lance6716]

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that when only one of `update-old-value-expr` or `update-new-value-expr` is set for a table, the filter rule does not take effect or DM panics [#7774](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7774) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

>         - Fix the issue that Table Empty Check cannot find imported dirty data on previous failed imports [#39477](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39477) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning precheck cannot find dirty data left by previously failed imports [#39477](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39477) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)
```

>         - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning precheck cannot find dirty data left by previously failed imports [#39477](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39477) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning prechecks cannot find dirty data left by previously failed imports [#39477](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39477) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)
```
